---
id: 171
title: 'Well, want to know about something&#8230; Just think about it !'
date: '2009-06-06T09:14:00+00:00'
author: Kiran
guid: 'https://kiran.co/well-want-to-know-about-something-just-think-about-it/'
permalink: /2009/06/well-want-to-know-about-something-just-think-about-it/
blogger_blog:
    - musemewithcoffee.blogspot.com
blogger_author:
    - 'Kiran (a.k.a. ThePhoenics)'
blogger_permalink:
    - /2009/06/well-want-to-know-about-something-just.html
categories:
    - BrainGate
    - Chakra
    - Science
---

<div style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-style: italic;">This post contains the matter of a mail I sent to my friends on 19th October, 2004. A lot of research was done later on the subjects, but I think, this is a nice start for the blog.</span><span style="font-style: italic;"> And, uhm, sorry for my language. My english is better now (hopefully).</span>Hmmm… well, the subject is a lil. different perhaps… We have learnt of soul travelling and about the Chakra Shastra where we can get out and learn things by ourself just by leaving our physical self and freeing our soul… BUT now, not many believe in it… … but, now, the scientists at “Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems <http: com="">” is trying to near such a thing… and or course… its throungh Neurotechnology… using small chips to understand the Language of the Neuron Transmissions… Just imagine… currently, it was successful in implanting such a system into the brain of a quadriplegic <http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">…</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">“Paralysed man sends e-mail by thought” goes the Headlines of a newspaper – Nature … The man can just send an Email just by thinking what !!!</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">The <span style="font-style: italic;">BrainGate Neural Interface System</span> is the stuff that makes the work for you… what next… this is been the stuff we were thinking about and talking about for long now… thinking if its possible and how can it be…!!! This system interprets the signals given by the mind and does what it understands them… the signals which are not recieved by the hands and limbs which are paralysed are now in safe hands ;)… well… what could be the next move… well… it should be a lil. complicated but really good one… can we read the thoughts of people ? Well… you might say… if the guy is able to compose the mail, then it means his thoughts are read…!!! Well… my answer should be NO… just think a lil… how compilicated is our process of understanding… ? and the work of thinking is distributed among millions of neurons and keeping track of them is not possible by any of the chips designed so far… probably… but how the hell could he send a mail… well, I feel I have an explaination… probably, the chip just takes the input from the brain which is to go to the hands and legs… well… now, these are processed… this guy can now just be able to operate his imaginary hands which would virtually type on the screen… its just that we are able to feel what that we are typing cause of the sensory part… now… u are good at typing… now, ur hands are numb… and u have shut your eyes close… and probably ur ears to… 😛 now you type… U can type without seeing… ur brain gives the signals to ur hands which are processed by them and then are executed… here… its only that the processing is done by an external agent !!!! Excellent isn’t it ?</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">But who knows… may be tomorrow someone else may come saying, I have a technology to monitor a few thousands of neurons… and then a few hunderd thousands… and then… a few millions !!! Who knows… !!! Man is a really unpredictable machine… he can never be trusted ;)… who knows… then we may just be able to google out stuff by thinking about the keywords… we start ‘hearing’ stuff and may be the lectures at the place would be a lil different then… teachers may not attend the class and students too… they may just be given some code and the teacher just starts thinking about the lecture, probably while cooking her food at home :)) and then… the students would be listening to it watching a cricket match at home :P… Wow… I just cant wait till that day ;)…. and what more… we can become a live camera… :P… what we see would be stored in very high resolution pictures… our games would become a lot more interesting… but really… whats happening ???</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Well… its just that we are nearing to one truth… the truth that Einstein once said about… “Everything in the word is just an illusion… its just that what you feel is real is a very strong illusion”… probably, this was the idea behind the film Matrix… well… we just know that what ever we are seeing now, is appears true for us… the colors, the sounds and all… well, if someone had a brain which analysed stuff differently, he may find the black color of ours seeming red… or any thing like that… the key point is what we see is just because of the way our brain analyses stuff… obviously, its a fine machine… only that we acted ‘foolish’ and started using Silicon chips and mother nature used Carbon compounds to build us… !!! What ever I am thinking now, is just the consequence of some chemical reactions deep inside my mind… which fortunately or unfortunately is unknown to me !!! So… now, lets see some funny thing… if we were just machines… … how do we call ourselves ‘living’ beings… now whats the meaning of being alive ??? Lets see… a person in the hospital… his heart stopped beating… hez dead… hez given a fine electric shock… hez back alive again…?!?! Or a lil. extreme case… a person is dead… now we have a method to store his brain and we supply it with what ever needed to put it in undamaged condition… we then transplant it in place of the brain of probably another person whoz dead… or if thats not possible, as we were talking, we just attach some chips to it and make it a machine… so… now, is that man alive ?!?!?… Probably he is…!!! I may say that the person had gone into some kind of coma and is back from it now :P… but all this becomes a threat to the very meaning of being alive… !!! The same threat which is probably posed by the so called teleportation… well, obviously, a man cannot travel with the speed of light… so, lets say he has to be teleported, therez just one way possible… which itself is highly difficult, techincally, well… we destroy the cells here and created them else where… apart from the energy needed for this and all such stuff, we even have some rules of science like Heisenbergs uncertainty principle which say it is not possible to exactly replicate such stuff… but if we can… then, lets say, the person is distroyed here and reconstructed else where… what has happened ? Is that person alive ? Well… to us, and to the newly created person, he was and is alive… it makes no difference… but in reality, we have made something like we killed a person here and we have made a clone of him of the same age and inserted him with the memories of this person till the moment he was distroyed… so, he just feels he was alive till then and he was teleported…!! He has the same thoughts, the same ideas.. and the same feelings… but hes a new man…!!!! Uhm… well, I guess we were just wandering somewhere… hmmm… yeah… we were seeing about the BrainGate… Thats a really marvelous job indeed !!!</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Who knows where the technology may take us… lets just wait and see… but yeah, I can say that we are nearing something which we always awaited to see… well… but just see… if our thoughts and sensations are really connected to the computer… then who knows… some idiotic cracker might show is illusions that may be uhm… a lil. out or the world ;)… well, atleast, I would like to try it … :D… !!!</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Anyway… now, just read these too… the Technical Information about this stuff… You will Love it… !!!</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com="" style="font-weight: bold;"><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Technology</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">http://www.cyberkineticsinc.com/braingate.htm</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com="" style="font-weight: bold;"><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Devices that read human thought now possible, study says</http:></http:>  
<http: com="" style="font-weight: bold;"><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Brain implants could help severely disabled</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">http://sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/c/a/2003/11/10/MNGK82U4MV1.DTL&amp;type=printable</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com="" style="font-weight: bold;"><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Scientists gingerly tap into brain’s power</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">http://www.usatoday.com/money/industries/health/2004-10-10-braingate-cover\_x.htm</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com="" style="font-weight: bold;"><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Brain chip reads mind by tapping straight into neurons.Brain chip reads mind by tapping straight into neurons.</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">http://www.nature.com/news/2004/041011/full/041011-9.html</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Well… now, I gotto read this…;)… I just parsed through the matter now, lets see the real technology behind this stuff… well, I just typed it before reading ’cause I didnot want to erase the interesting stuff you may get in touch with while reading the articles urself !!!</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com=""></http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Anyway…</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">Good Day ppl… Take Care and Keep Smiling (Its a really interesting phenomenon too ;)…)…</http:></http:>  
<http: com=""><http: bin="" book="Dictionary&va=quadriplegic+" com="">-Kiran</http:></http:>

</div>